well women and children are bearing the
brunt of this war let's speak to Sarah
Ali about this she's a global media
manager for the Middle East North Africa
and Eastern Europe would save the
children and is joining us from Rafa in
southern Gaza thank you Sarah for being
with us um talk to us first about the U
situation right now in Gaza what you've
witnessed since uh you've been in Gaza
uh when it comes to the the fate and the
impact of the war on children what have
you seen and heard
the impact of the war here is clear the
situation in Rafa in Gaza is
overwhelmingly catastrophic overcrowding
is the first thing that you can notice
children everywhere there are people
everywhere this is a small patch of land
that was home to around
275,000 people before the war and now
there's an estimated 1.5 million people
trapped cramped Sheltering here living
often in in makeshift tents under
plastic sheets and metal and you can see
children on the streets children with
rashes we've seen communicable diseases
spreading uh children often with one or
both limbs missing the situation is dire
and children are noticeably malnourished
we know that nowhere near enough food or
Aid is getting through right
now that that's the situation in the
South what about uh in other parts of
the the Gaza Strip we were just talking
to our correspondent in Northern Gaza
who was describing a very desperate and
and and dire situation there for the
people including famine and children in
the Gaza Strip sadly are all to use to
Conflict for most of them for some of
them in fact this is not the first war
they've experienced what's different
about this particular conflict what do
you see is different for children in
this
War I think what's different is the
sheer scale the number that we're seeing
we know that over
13,700 children have been killed and as
you said the situation in the north is
particularly catastrophic we've already
seen numbers of children dying because
of malnutrition and dehydration the
north nowhere is safe in Gaza right now
but the North in particular it's been
completely decimated it's just Rubble
it's covered in unexploded ordinances
it's an extremely dangerous place even
in Rafa we're hearing explod
we are seeing drones and the star
contrast of those Elements of War With
Children running around the streets with
no food no water no shoes and the the
types of injuries we're seeing are
really are really catastrophic right a
complete destruction you described there
of normal family life for these children
and even for those who are physically
unscathed they may be scarred of course
there's a psychological impact of this
conflict
so what is save the children what is
your organization doing today in Gaza
you're there what are you doing to help
these
children right now first and foremost
we're trying to give and deliver
life-saving AIDS so food water hygiene
kits which are basically the Basic
Essentials people need to maintain some
sort of dignity our main focus right now
is getting that Aid in we know that's
been extremely difficult the only border
open right now is the Rafa border
crossing and we've seen Aid coming in at
an alarmingly slow rate nowhere near
enough trucks getting through trucks
being turned away here as you said the
mental health impact is so enormous
yesterday I spoke with a woman who said
more than food she needs mental health
support and that really shows to you the
prolonged the long-term consequences
this war will have on Children and
Families people have been displaced time
and time again since October
progressively from the north and now in
the south
there's nowhere left to go and people
are visibly impacted by this s thank you
very much for taking the time to speak
to us Ali is with save the children
joining us there from arafa in southern
Gaza thank you for your
time thanks